Hey, everyone on YouTube.
Hey, Brian.
Hey.
How's it going?
It's great.
Good,
good.
Glad to hear it. I think it's time to do another episode.
Let's just jump in, huh?
Yeah.
Hello,
and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 482,
recorded Monday,
June 1st. I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
This episode is brought to you by us and all of the Python things that we're doing.
Check out pythontest.com.
Is that the right domain?
Yeah.
Say that again?
pythontest.com.
That's it?
Yeah.
That's it.
Awesome.
Check out pythontest.com.
Get Brian's multiple courses over there.
Even something to do with Lean TDD if you want to check that out.
I hear that an audio book is underway,
which is super cool.
And got a couple new courses over at Talk Python,
especially the new OWASP top 10 security plus agentic AI.
Like,
how do you take Claude Code or something like that,
plus known recognized patterns like the OWASP top 10
and make your code safe?
That's what that course is about.
So check out those kind of things.
That's what we're bringing you this week.
Also,
if you want to connect with us on socials,
share,
show ideas,
whatever,
you can do so on all the socials.
Sign up for the newsletter.
We got awesome extras that come in through there.
So just do that on the website.
With that,
Brian,
I think it might be time.
Should we kick it off?
Speaking of security.
Oh, right.
Apparently,
I'm sleeping at the wheel.
So,
yeah, I wanted to talk about, we have a security issue,
but the issue I think is resolved.
We just,
I'm highlighting an article that's about the maintainer.
So this, this is interesting.
So this is the CVE,
I'm not going to, let's see.
CVE 2026 48710, a maintainer's perspective.
So this is from Marcelo Trilisinski,
that's a cool name.
Anyway,
this is about a security advisory from Starlet.
So isn't FastAPI used Starlet, I think?
I do believe so,
yeah.
And a bunch of other stuff, too.
So even if you don't think that you're using Starlet,
you might be using Starlet.
So the short version is you probably ought to upgrade to 1.0.1
if you haven't already.
That's one of the versions.
If you don't care about the nitty gritty of this,
just do that.
The other part is an interesting thing about basically that this is an interesting article.
It's kind of hard to cover,
but I wanted to bring it up because it does.
We do have more and more AI things like attack both both trying to attack websites and also so we have to keep up on security updates.
but also a lot of these security vulnerability reports against projects.
And a lot of these projects like Starlette are not,
they're not a commercial enterprise.
It's an open source project with volunteer maintainers.
So that's really what we're talking about here is a little bit of that.
And also the problem really wasn't with Starlet.
And apparently they got some bad press in a couple of places because of a
vulnerability.
But this I'm going to read this interesting,
interesting thing.
The vulnerability
came,
came from a pattern,
an application pattern and the deployment never from something Starlet
intended.
And there's a description in the in the link about what the issue is.
And I actually got
lost.
So it's something about like,
yeah, I'm not even going to try to summarize it because I got
lost here.
But the there's a there's one description of the
bug.
It says from from Austiff, I don't know what Austiff is, but
an Austiff article.
This bug is a classic responsibility gap or
this maintainer didn't pad it where if this maintainer didn't
patch,
then 1000s of exposed projects would have had would have
to individually secure their projects.
In doing this work,
They've voluntarily taken on the responsibility to protect the ecosystem from long-term systemic harm.
As with all open source projects,
they owed us nothing and could have left it for everyone else's problem.
But they took the extraordinary steps of helping the ecosystem.
Please consider donating to Glutex, which is the person that wrote this article.
And I believe the maintainer of Starlette as well.
Okay,
yeah.
You're right.
And also,
so apparently Ars Technica even covered it. And we've referenced the articles a lot, you know, in the past,
sometimes some good stuff.
But apparently they reached out and said,
you know,
this seems to be serious.
Do you have any comments?
How severe is it?
And they didn't, they sent that request out two hours before publication.
And since they didn't get a response,
they posted that.
They asked, but didn't get a reply from Starlette.
Two hours?
Anyway.
The article goes on to talk about the burden of triaging,
how many security advisories come in,
all the work that's involved.
also that places like Ars Technica and others treat open source projects as if they're a
for-profit corporation and expect like a PR department and stuff. And there's not.
It's
just people.
So anyway.
Yeah.
Do you have anything else to add to this or just interesting?
Yeah, it's just interesting.
I don't know.
It doesn't look like a super dangerous vulnerability.
I don't think,
but definitely go out and patch.
And it's a 1.0.0 to 1.0.1 bump.
So it's not like you've got to jump a major version.
Yeah,
definitely patch.
But also,
I don't know how to get out of this,
but because we have a lot of these open source projects
that big companies are relying on,
and they want the reaction times of a paid product.
And they just,
yeah.
You know what?
They could do that by maybe putting the maintainer on a healthy retainer,
making the project sustainable and say,
look, we'll pay you $2,000 a month
and we probably won't ask you anything for a long time,
but if we need you, we need you to jump in
and we'll then pay you out earlier.
I don't know, something like that, right?
If you get five companies doing that,
I bet you can get some response time out of that.
Yeah,
but the ironic reverse thing is
actual paid products are really slow to patch anything.
So we actually get usually faster response times
from open source projects.
So anyway.
Indeed,
indeed.
All right, let's go and chat a bit
about the Daily Stars Explorer.
This is a fun project, Brian.
So what this is, this is a web app
that's open source on GitHub.
What is it built with?
Scrolling.
is built with JavaScript and go so but it doesn't matter because it's not about the internals is
about the information you get about different projects including Python ones so it's an app
that you can put in a repository and it will give you just basically historical information about
the stars sliced and diced in all these statistical ways oh neat so has full star history hourly stars
as you can compare side by side repos,
activity timelines
of like show me the commits over time,
which is kind of interesting.
And favorite them and so on.
You can see when the repos were mentioned
on Hacker News,
Reddit, YouTube,
and GitHub.
And you download the data for feeding to your AI
or feeding to your data science stack.
So I think this is pretty cool.
And let's just do this by-
Let me first find the flask repo on second.
All right, so let's go and open up the little demo.
So it's a web apps,
which means you have to self host it.
However,
if you just want to try it out,
I think just use the demo and put whatever you want in there.
Like unless you want to save your history and stuff.
But let's go over and put flask in.
And it thinks for a moment.
The first time you get one in there, I put a repo in there.
It takes a minute to download all the data from GitHub.
But because I put that in there before,
it kind of goes more quickly.
So you can see right now Flask has 71,598 stars.
And you could have different themes,
of course,
for the thing.
But it shows you the total stars over time.
So you've got this graph,
this orange line, if you pull it up,
is the integral or something like that.
And here's the stars per day,
like 13,
15,
whatever.
And then the scales are different.
One goes up to 80,000, another goes to 30.
But you take the integral at the top curve,
you get the bottom curve,
sum up all the stars.
And it's very cool.
You can break it down by over five year, quarterly,
years a day like you can go and say I want to transform this by I want to just
look at trend lines or I want to look at monthly Bend stars or maybe I want to
normalize the stars across and have like a little you know lines what else we've
got the running median and week over week growth hmm mean right shows you how old
the repository is 16 years one month 26 days 68 stars the last day so I
A lot of times you maybe want to think about what project do I actually want to work on or base my project upon?
And obviously stars are not everything,
but it's certainly something.
Could we pull up here? Come on now, get away.
You're right about this auto-hide stuff,
right?
So where can I find?
I don't know where to pull up the commits from this one right off the top of my head.
But anyway, it would be cool to see the commits because that would let you answer some interesting questions as well.
Right?
Like if you see the commits just come to a stop two years ago, you're like,
oh,
I see.
So where's the work happening?
Like where is it?
Is it getting this data from in the browser?
Or when's the?
There's a Go-based web app running on someone's server
that they've got up here that I believe.
And then it just happens over there.
If I pulled up a different one, you would see it
grind away for maybe 10, 15 seconds.
Well,
that's a lot of data and a lot of graphs.
I'm just...
The pickiness in me, I'm like,
well, what graph doesn't it have?
I don't see any candlestick bar graphs.
sorry
yeah I know it's pretty neat though
if you want to explore some repos
it's cool
I haven't seen people include like
YouTube references before
and something like that
oh yeah and there's all this side stuff over here
you can compare here's the commits
so give it a moment
see now it's grinding because I didn't ask for the commits
on Flask earlier today
you can see PRs, issues,
forks
like that's pretty neat
it's kind of hidden in this little hamburger menu on the left
expando it out.
It'll probably take...
This should be interesting, I think.
I've got some ideas.
But,
I don't know.
It'll take maybe 30 seconds.
There you go.
So, year over, all time.
You can see there's quite a few commits.
Trending downward.
It's kind of a,
honestly, kind of a done product.
You know?
I don't mean that in a positive or negative way.
There's a few things left that I think Flask could do.
Primarily,
I think one of the,
there's probably two things to work on.
I think primarily you could work on maybe some performance stuff to make Flask better.
And you could unify the true async court and the sort of pseudo async, regular Flask async functionality.
I know David and Phillip are like working towards making those just one thing.
But you know, that could be a lot of work right there.
That could be happening.
But other than that, I kind of feel like Flask is sort of done.
anyway
this is not about Flask
it's about the Daily Stars Explorer
which I think is pretty cool
just a link to us from last week
no projects ever done
because you have to test on new Python versions
every year
and if it completely gets treated as done
then it starts to get treated badly
dust and stuff
exactly
how about something to mark down
maybe document it
write a book about it yeah so um i like i like a lot of markdown um i use it a lot of all the time
i'm actually writing i wrote the uh the python testing with py test in markdown i'm writing lean
tdd in markdown i use it for blog posts use it for everything so why what i'm what's new about
this what's new is i just learned about a tool called types types i think it's tight uh it even
says how to pronounce it and i didn't look so typst so um i needed a new formatting thing because i'm
i'm trying to self-publish lean tdd and i didn't like the book the print book versions of
output that i have available so i wanted to customize that so i reached out to um uh all of
our good friend uh matt harrison because he self-published and says said matt what do you use
and um he's using types now so i'm i checked it tried to check it out so uh the gist is that
pandoc converts to pdf but i does it through late latex and i don't really like latex
and you have to download something extra anyway to get pandoc to convert it so um and then but
there's types it's actually quite a pain it's not just it's like three or four libraries they're all
i don't know it's weird it's not great okay so uh i'll jump to the punch line is i've got
a convert script now that does uh converts pandoc to type typ and i don't know what the official
extension is but i just named it so you say two types in for pandoc but it's a fairly recent
pandoc that there's been updates recently so you'll want to upgrade your pandoc first then
convert your markdown and then take the type typ output and come you do types to compile
and then the output and i did a little example so it's just a normal markdown and it just converts it
to nice um some nice pdf so um there's a whole bunch of syntax highlighting as well oh yeah it
does it it does syntax highlighting and um there's so much that it does it does it has mathematical
symbols it is a replacement for LaTeX for one but it's very much simpler and I
in like an hour of twiddling with it I have a fairly decent book template for
for the new book and yeah so I'm pretty happy with it and I've had this is and
this has been around for a while and I just didn't know about it so I'm that's
why I'm bringing it up and installing wise just brew for a Mac brew on Windows
like there was some other process I did but it it's so much easier than the
LaTeX chain to to install so pretty happy with with this tool so thanks so I
I was so happy with that I did a little little blog post to share with people so
Excellent.
That is really interesting. I might start using that
because right now I'm doing just straight markdown to Pandoc for Talk Python
in production and it's really good for EPUB but it's kind of janky for PDF and
it's kind of janky for Kindle because Kindle can't read it quite right so I
have to do like remove a few little niceties for Kindle. So anyway certainly
worth considering really thanks yeah oh I'm not having I have it I guess I
haven't tried I'll have to try that they try to get over the problem that I run
into with Kindle is somehow the way that pan doc is doing code syntax
highlighting breaks the display on Kindle because I don't know there's
something about like new lines or spans or something that get treated differently
and then like the spacing is really weird it's it's annoying okay I will um I'll
I'll definitely give it a look and see what it looks like.
I'll have to try that.
And yeah,
so I'll try that probably today.
Yeah.
I mean,
the books are identical for me,
other than the Kindle ones don't have syntax highlighting,
which is generally OK because most Kindles are black and white,
but I know some are not.
Oh,
OK.
So on black and white Kindle, it looks OK?
If I compile a separate version,
a separate Kindle EPUB
that disables syntax highlighting in Pandoc,
yes.
Uh,
okay.
Yeah.
I'll have to look at that.
So that was the fix.
I'm just like, all right, well,
dash, dash,
no,
whatever the syntax is, I don't know.
It's been a while since I wrote the alias that just does it, you know?
Okay.
Yeah,
I'll take a look.
Hmm.
All right.
Well,
this one, Brian, this should be yours.
This should be yours, but no, I got it.
This one is mine.
So I want to talk about Postman to pytest.
Okay.
This is a cool project.
It comes to us from Mikko,
and people might be familiar with the Postman app.
I'm a big fan of the Postman app.
It's pretty neat.
Do you use it?
Do you know it?
Yeah.
Yeah, so the way it works is you create these collections
that are like groups of different API calls
that in aggregate demonstrate or test some kind of API,
right?
You can organize them into folders,
but also you can do collections
and then share these collections with teammates and team collections.
I did that notably for the Talk Python courses app that's in the Mac,
not the Mac, the iOS and the Google Play Store.
So I need all the APIs that I'm creating for this
to be tested,
documented,
clear.
You can do stuff that should pass,
stuff that should fail,
and so on.
All right, so if your team uses Postman,
then this project here you might like,
because it converts Postman collections,
which I just
described,
into executable Python test suite-
a pytest test suite.
Nice.
Yeah,
and it's super simple.
So all you do is you just say-
you install it, probably uv if-
it says pip install, but come on now.
uv tool install.
Let's go.
So it says postman2pytest-
--collection, give it some collection.
And then you say output this Python test file.
And that's it.
and then run Python-
not right,
run pytest to run it.
So that's pretty neat.
That will actually set the environment
so that things like the base URL,
which can vary depending
on configs like dev versus prod or whatever,
and then it just runs it through pytest.
And what's cool is you could version this test file
and then just rerun this to regenerate it when it's time.
Yeah.
Also,
if you did that, if you versioned it,
then you could rerun it and do the diffs
to see what changed in your collections.
Yeah,
that's right.
Yeah, you could regenerate it and just go, oh, I see.
We've got this.
This or this API actually changed,
because now it takes this additional header,
and that's why the test was failing.
I don't know.
Something like that.
So if-- I mean, this is a big if if you use Postman,
but I think this is really handy.
And it's just like, hey, I've got this stuff
into this app and it can run things, it can do test type things, but really you probably want it in
pytest land and this cool little app and this cool little utility does it.
So good work, Mikko.
Yeah, one of the things that he mentioned to us when he shared this project was, which I thought
was interesting,
is the division of a whole bunch of developers and then that use Postman during
development,
which is common,
right?
I think.
And then a smaller quality assurance team or part-time person, I think it was him,
that
needs to support some of this stuff.
And so you've got the same source.
You've got the developers developing what they think is the right thing.
and to be able to take that and convert it to something that a smaller test team can maintain.
And that's a cool model to do that with.
So one source of truth.
Nice.
Yeah, it's almost like treating like a database,
right?
Yeah.
Do you have extras?
I have one extra for today.
And my extra is that I snuck this in for the last blog post that I shared was actually on testandcode.org.
So I am writing,
I'm going to start writing there, I think, a little bit.
So I'm linking to new blog, Who Dis?
There is not much there yet since I just put it online,
but I'll link to the other stuff.
One of the funny things that happened to me last night was I went to publish this at testandcode.com,
and I had let it expire because the old podcast was dead.
So what happened?
I'm like, well, somebody else grabbed it.
Some squatter is sitting on it now, so I just registered.org.
That works.
Oh, nice.
And the important thing, I could just keep blogging on Python tests, but I do want to use this testing code name as the publisher for LeanTDD.
So it's self-published through me,
but it's kind of, I don't know, it's not fake.
It just looks kind of fun to have a different publisher than my name or Amazon or something like that.
So that's what I'm going to do.
Anyway,
that's my extra.
How about something funny?
I think it's time for something funny indeed let's jump over
so this joke is called centering a div and it's it's based on mr.
beast you know you do do you know
mr. beast no but yes yes I know it's it's certainly not a thing that I would watch on youtube
however sure no I would watch animal fails come on it's I really don't watch
mr. beast it's kind of annoying to me it's but what a phenomenon right so for
people who don't know done by this guy Jimmy Donald James Jimmy John Donaldson
and his net worth from his YouTube projects and beyond you know it's 2.6
billion dollars it's ridiculous so it basically it follows a theme like we're
going to put you in some crazy situation and throughout the situation and at the end,
whoever
kind of completes it gets some ridiculous amount of money.
Like, hey,
we're all going to hang on to
a car like a Tesla and whoever hangs on to it long enough gets a Tesla.
Oh, by the way, the person
who doesn't go to the bathroom the longest gets an extra $100,000.
You know, like ridiculous stuff
like that, right?
So queued up.
Here's the joke.
Centering a div.
Mr.
Beast plans to
trap a thousand vibe coders in a room without Claude first person to center a div manually wins one
million dollars it's it's not fair nobody will get it i know exactly it's like it's impossible
can't be done and then down here um one of them is center horizontally vertically or both like oh
oh oh vertically it's just impossible now i don't even know if it's hard anymore actually
it just it used to be hard but i don't know if it is i think it depends how you write it like
if you did a flex box you know but if you did old school way it's a little harder yeah
that's sort of funny to think about though because the uh the did the vibe i don't vibe code but i
I also don't write CSS by hand anymore.
I use something else to do it for me.
So anyway.
Funny.
One of the things,
I actually was at a dinner party the other day
and somebody said they wanted to start,
they take a lot of videos and I said,
oh,
cool, can I watch them somewhere?
And he's like, well,
I was gonna,
I said you should like throw them up on Instagram
or something,
whatever.
And he's like, well, I'm gonna start doing on YouTube
because,
you know, that Mr.
Beast makes like millions of dollars.
And one of the things they, I mean,
I don't watch these videos
and maybe they're funny,
maybe they're not.
I don't know.
It's not my thing.
But one of the things that's unfortunate is it kind of,
it makes some people believe that they can do that also.
And I think this is a one-off random thing.
I think it's just,
you know, it was at the right time,
right place.
It's its own thing.
Yeah.
And how much did he make for the first three years he was doing it?
I don't know.
I might have lost money.
I'm not sure.
He would just go up to random people, give them $1,000 for stuff.
I don't know where he got the $1,000 to start this idea with.
Is that how it started at the beginning?
It was always like this?
I think so.
The beginning,
I don't know.
But for a long time,
it's been like that.
But it used to be lower scale and then goes up.
Because my daughter watched them a lot for a while.
not so much anymore,
but for a while.
And so it would kind of be on in the background
while I'm on the couch or whatever, you know?
Weird.
Okay.
Whatever.
But this is his new amazing one.
Trap a thousand vibe coders in a room without Claude.
Ask them to do things.
Let's go.
Yeah,
that's funny.
It is.
All right.
Thanks for the show, Brian.
Thanks for everyone for listening.
All right.
Bye.